As many of you know, during the last academic year, serious concerns arose
about racial profiling on campus. As I have said elsewhere, there is no
place in our society for racial profiling or any other form of bias.
Discrimination and harassment are not acceptable at Vassar College.  I am
committed to working to create and sustain a welcoming environment free of
discrimination and harassment for all community members, guests, and
visitors. I wish I could guarantee that racial profiling, harassment, and
discrimination will never happen on the Vassar campus, but it isn’t within
anyone’s powers to do so.  What we can have are strong policies and
education to make sure that members of our community understand that these
things are not accepted here and that violating our standards will have
serious consequences.  We have taken several steps over the spring and
summer to more effectively prevent and address racial profiling and to plan
for improved education for our employees and students related to diversity
issues. Having heard from many concerned groups on these issues, including
alumnae/i, I want to keep the community informed.  While efforts are
ongoing, to date, the college has taken the following actions.



Vassar’s Equal Opportunity Director Julian R. Williams has been
investigating two incidents from the 2013/14 academic year. As a result,,
we have determined that we need to clarify and strengthen several of our
policies and procedures. For example, we have amended our policies against
discrimination and harassment to include profiling on the basis of race,
ethnicity, or national origin as a violation of college policies. This
stronger policy has been added to the College Regulations and to the Equal
Opportunity and Affirmative Action website and other relevant college
sites, including Human Resources and Safety and Security. Forms to report
incidents of profiling were added previously to the Equal Opportunity and
Affirmative Action and Safety and Security sites.



The college also has contracted with Margolis Healy, a professional
services firm based in Burlington, Vermont, that specializes in higher
education safety and security, to further assist us in a thorough review of
our campus safety and security policies and practices, including the
department’s structure, operations and relationships with students,
faculty, staff, alumnae/i and other visitors to campus. Margolis Healy is
considered a national leader in the area of campus safety and security;
last fall the US Department of Justice selected Margolis Healy to establish
and lead the National Center for Campus Public Safety, created by Congress
in 2013 to serve as the national think tank for university and college
safety and security issues.



The Dean of the College, which oversees the Office of Safety and Security,
has created a new Safety and Security Advisory Council charged with
reviewing current campus security policies and procedures and making
recommendations for their improvement. The makeup of the new council
includes Affirmative Action and Equal Opportunity Officer Julian R.
Williams as chair; Ja’Wanda Grant, director of the Quantitative Reasoning
Center; David Bradley, associate professor of physics and astronomy; April
Beisaw, assistant professor of anthropology; and two student members to be
appointed by the VSA.



Progress and information concerning these initiatives will be made
available at a web page that we are currently developing and will have in
place early in the fall semester. The college is committed to ongoing
efforts to assure a campus where every member of our community and our
visitors feel safe and welcome.







The following letter also is available with photos on the President’s
Office website.









Even as we near the beginning of a new academic year, I continue to think
about last spring’s Commencement, especially our speaker, noted scientist
Sau Lan Wu of the class of 1963, one of the physicists responsible for the
discovery of the Higgs boson, or “God particle.” There is so much about her
life story that has stayed with me, and probably with everyone else who
heard her talk.  In it she recounted how she ventured from the slums of
Hong Kong to Vassar: a 17-day voyage, including several typhoons; a cross
country train trip; the kindness of strangers, notably alumnae of the
college who helped with food for the journey; and the abiding belief her
mother had in young Sau Lan. The journey began after she received a full
scholarship from Vassar, the only college or university to provide such
assistance among the many in the United States to which she applied.



Sau Lan Wu’s story offers us a look into a life very different from most of
ours, yet the qualities she and her life have embodied are the qualities we
see, in many different forms, in the lives and achievements of our
alumnae/i across the decades and all over the world: an unshakable
independence, a determination to succeed even when other people said she
couldn’t, a willingness to take risks and make compromises, the commitment
to work as hard as she had to to achieve her goals. This is a fitting
reminder of the power of a Vassar education, particularly timely as we
welcome a new class and our returning students for another year.



Vassar’s Class of 2018, summer accomplishments



The newest members of our community arrived this week, more than 660 young
people, comprising the most diverse class in Vassar’s history. As we would
expect, by every academic measure they are accomplished and talented. They
come from 46 states and 31 foreign countries.  Fifty-seven percent are
women; 43 percent men.  Students of color who are US citizens or permanent
residents comprise more than 36 percent of the class.  The class is
socioeconomically diverse, with 60 percent receiving need-based financial
aid from the college. Eleven percent of the class are the first in their
families to attend college, and nearly 25 percent are eligible for federal
Pell grant aid for low-income students. The class also includes our second
group of veterans recruited through a partnership with the Posse
Foundation. We are pleased that this year Wesleyan University will become
the second school to partner with the Posse veterans program.



Even though most of our students are just beginning to arrive, a number
collaborated with faculty on research on campus and elsewhere throughout
the summer. Approximately 80 students participated with their faculty
mentors in the Undergraduate Research Science Institute (URSI) and the Ford
Scholars program, a research program in the humanities and the social
sciences. Collaborations ranged from a National Science Foundation-funded
project to build a fleet of robots using a 3-D printer to the development
of a course on the corporatization of American education. With support from
the Tananbaum Family Leadership Program for Work and Development, 21 rising
seniors were able to participate in internships this summer. Tananbaum
Fellows interned with cardiology researchers at Baylor College of Medicine
in Texas, worked with the Senate Banking Committee to consider foreign
policy factors influencing U.S. economic stability, and interned at Warner
Brothers in television production, for example. Another has been working
for the iF Foundation, a non-governmental organization that works with
farmers in rural Haiti.  Eleven of our students also were interns with
local human service agencies through the Community Fellows program,
providing much-needed assistance to Poughkeepsie-area organizations doing
important work.  Several Vassar students were among those who participated
in the Powerhouse Theater training program, the educational component of
the summer collaboration between Vassar and New York Stage and Film. The
season included 20 professional productions of new plays and musicals on
campus, with over 270 artists and several thousand audience members from
the Hudson Valley.



New College Store at the Juliet, improved campus facilities



We are very pleased that the new Vassar College Store at the Juliet opened
last week, creating a college and community anchor in the Arlington
neighborhood. In a portion of the former Juliet movie theater, the new
store occupies a transformed space that is open, modern, colorful and
flexible in design. Many of you who remember going to movies there will be
pleased to learn that the original Juliet neon sign has been restored.
Intended to serve the general public as well as our students, faculty, and
staff, the store carries many gift items and Hudson Valley products as well
as Vassar-branded merchandise.  The work of local artists, available for
purchase, will be featured regularly. Occupying the adjacent space in the
Juliet building will be BurgerFi, a national chain restaurant that features
specialty burgers and craft beers.  BurgerFi will open later in the month
and, with the College Store, will have a grand opening and ribbon-cutting
on Saturday, September 20, at 11 a.m. in conjunction with our Freshman
Families Weekend and the annual Arlington Street Fair. This project has
been a long time coming and owes its accomplishment to many people at
Vassar and in the local community.



The exquisite transformations of New England and Sanders Physics are now
complete, and our students and faculty can begin enjoying a portion of our
sweeping Integrated Science Center project. New England is the new home of
the Psychology and Cognitive Science departments, and Sanders Physics now
houses Computer Science in addition to Physics and Astronomy.



Improvements to these early 20th-century buildings (New England opened in
1901, Sanders in 1926) have made them ready for 21st-century science, with
many of their historic references still apparent. The renovations included
the creation of new classrooms, laboratories, and office spaces, new
infrastructure and mechanical systems, roofing replacement and repairs,
structural improvements, window restoration, new stairs, and a new
elevator. Importantly, both buildings are now fully accessible to the
standards of the Americans with Disabilities Act. Both were also renovated
following guidelines created by the U.S. Green Building Council and will be
Vassar’s first Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED)
certified buildings.



After the spring semester, biology faculty and staff and their equipment
were moved temporarily out of Olmsted Hall to various campus locations,
notably the former bookstore space on the lower level of College Center, so
major mechanical and structural improvements could begin on Olmsted. These
will be completed in January and the building will be ready for use in the
spring semester. The new 80,000 square foot bridge building, the exciting
progress of which we can see now from many vantage points on campus, will
be completed during the fall of 2015.



We currently are also working with several architectural firms to explore
options to house our multidisciplinary programs, which had been largely
located in New England building.  This architectural competition will
produce location and design alternatives for housing the programs,
considering both their existing location in the Old Laundry Building and
new building sites on campus.



The college continues its sustainability efforts with leadership from the
sustainability committee and Alistair Hall ’11, sustainability coordinator
in the Office of the Dean of Strategic Planning and Academic Resources.
Through the STARS self-reporting framework
 for
colleges to measure their sustainability performance, Vassar has earned a
silver rating for our ongoing efforts. Over the summer, Vassar had the
benefit of two interns from the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF), part of
its EDF Climate Corps, to conduct energy efficiency assessments at the
college. Through their efforts we’ve received detailed recommendations for
improved sub-metering of energy use on campus and the buildout of energy
dashboards for assessing usage, plans for much more energy efficient
exterior lighting on campus, and recommendations on reducing the use of
home heating oil for college-owned properties. We also received excellent
advice on ways to improve the campus Resource Conservation Fund, which
provides college funds for innovation grants and energy loans for campus
sustainability projects.



Voluntary early retirement incentive program, college finances



At the end of May, the college offered more than 200 eligible
administrators and staff members who met a threshold of age plus years of
service the opportunity for a generous early retirement package.
Seventy-one of those employees throughout the college accepted the offer.
The early retirement plan is part of broader efforts that the college has
undertaken since 2008 to return to financial equilibrium following the
recession.  Many of you are aware of these efforts from discussions over
the past several years. We have made significant progress in controlling
our spending, and thus the percentage of funds we take from the endowment
for our operating budget; however, we must continue to slow the growth of
our spending during the next two years to achieve the acceptable 5%
spending rate from the endowment by 2017-18, as agreed to with the Board of
Trustees. We are confident that with the results of the incentive offer we
can achieve that percentage. This is very good news.



The early retirement plan had two important goals: financial savings for
the college without layoffs of any of our employees and appropriate
recognition of long-term employees with remuneration that can help them
transition from the college. Now that we know which employees will be
leaving the college, we can consider and build new structures and
collaborations that have not been possible with our status quo staffing. In
instances where staffing will be reduced or rehiring delayed, we will need
clear communication with the campus about the effects of those decisions on
the services we can provide.



Campus challenges



Although there is much at Vassar of which to be proud, we also face ongoing
challenges. During last academic year serious concerns arose
about racial profiling on campus. There is no place in our society
for racial profiling or any other form of bias. Discrimination and
harassment are not acceptable at Vassar College. Earlier this summer I
wrote to the campus community to emphasize my commitment to ensure that
Vassar is a safe and welcoming place for everyone on our campus and to
explain our ongoing efforts to address these issues. That full message
is available
online .



Another serious challenge for our community is being able to listen to each
other respectfully when we have different viewpoints on complex and highly
charged issues such as the conflict in Israel and Palestine. A diverse
community, where we all feel included and supported, does not just happen.
It takes a great deal of work. People from many different backgrounds will
have deeply held views that can conflict or even clash with the views of
others. When those clashes deny the rights of others, they damage
relationships and what we stand for. Our commitment to free speech or
expression does not protect harassment, discrimination, or hate-speech.
 These behaviors violate our policies, which include clear procedures for
adjudicating such cases.



Over the summer I have been working with a number of colleagues on ways we
might increase our community’s understanding and practice of respectful
discourse and engage others in these efforts as well. In addition to the
Dean of the Faculty, the Dean of the College, and the Chair of FPCC
(Faculty Policy and Conference Committee), this initial group included key
staff from Residential Life and other student services, Campus Activities,
Alumnae/i Affairs and Development, and Communications. We have agreed that
“working across difference” will be a theme of many important campus events
–orientation, the student leadership conference, and convocation, as
examples – providing opportunities to examine constructive ways of
responding to different viewpoints.



We are planning a series of speakers and panels, both on specific issues
related to the Middle East and on developing skills to engage effectively
on difficult topics, and are seeking faculty input from several departments
to help shape these events. We will have more information on those soon. We
also have created a program of grants
 from the
President’s Office over the next two years to support projects and events
developed by faculty, students, and staff that address complex issues from
multiple perspectives and encourage a rich and respectful discourse. I was
encouraged by the commitment, creative thinking, and problem solving my
colleagues brought to our discussions this summer; we look forward to
extending our planning to the broader community.



Over its history Vassar has often stepped forward as a leader to take on
challenging issues very directly.  In that spirit I believe we can learn
and model how to engage a diverse group of people with wide-ranging and
deeply held views.  In doing so we can actually contribute to the
resolution of complex issues, particularly through our graduates as they
enter a world that sorely needs compassionate and creative leadership.





We are very fortunate to have a community on campus that is richly diverse
in backgrounds and perspectives.  Every one of us benefits from the
opportunity to engage students, faculty, and staff who come from different
parts of the country and the world, who bring different experiences and
values to our learning, teaching, and our work on campus.

We know that within such a diverse community, we often differ strongly in
opinion. At times that can mean conversations that are difficult and
contentious.  And as we saw during the past academic year, those exchanges
can fall short of the respectful dialogue we value at Vassar.  Along with
many others, I believe we must do better to support every member of the
extraordinary community we are creating here.

Among other initiatives that we are planning for the coming year, I want to
announce a grant program available for innovative programming that helps
strengthen our community's ability to work across differences. My office
will be accepting proposals on a rolling basis and funds will be available
throughout the next two academic years.  The Call for Proposals is pasted
below and also attached.




Call For Proposals:

Dialogue & Engagement Across Differences

Would you like to create a campus-wide event that engages a complex social
issue?  Can you, your organization and/or your colleagues imagine
innovative ways to create space for finding common ground in the face of
deep-rooted and intense disagreements?  The President’s Office would like
to support students, faculty, administrators and staff interested in
developing lectures, dialogues, arts events, etc. that speak to Vassar’s
commitment to diverse ideas, transformative and respectful dialogue, and
the importance of engaging difficult issues as a community.



Over the academic years of 2014-15 and 2015-16, the President’s Office will
make available funds to support programs that examine controversial issues
facing Vassar and society at large.  Topics are unrestricted, but should
engage a cross-section of the Vassar campus. Funding priority will go to
proposals that bring into conversation the widest group of campus
participants, from the planning stages to presentation. Moreover, proposals
that explore complex social issues from multidimensional perspectives are
encouraged.  The inclusion of multiple voices and opinions is central to
program funding consideration.



Proposals should include:

●      Program title;

●      Program abstract (maximum 100 words);

●      Detailed program description (maximum 600 words) which should
include format description (lecture, workshop, interactive/experiential, or
other) and time length;

●      Bios of invited speaker(s) (if applicable)--no more than 100 words
for each speaker;

●      Intended goals of the program;

●      Names and contact information for student organizations, campus
offices, faculty groups, and/or departments and programs collaborating to
produce the program; and

●      Detailed budget.



Deadline open: proposals accepted on an ongoing basis



Submit proposals to 

Dear members of the Vassar College community,

We are writing to update the community on the status of the comprehensive
safety and security management study that is being conducted by Margolis
Healy and Associates (www.margolishealy.com).

As you know, Margolis Healy spent a full week on campus in mid-September.
In addition to a comprehensive document review, they conducted a wide range
of individual interviews and focus groups with students, faculty, staff,
administrators, and alumnae/i.  With many anticipated retirements within
Safety and Security, we have also asked them for a full analysis and set of
recommendations with regard to staffing.

Upon completion of the report, Margolis Healy plans to present the results
of their assessment and their recommendations to the Vassar community at an
open forum prior to the conclusion of the fall semester.  We will notify
the community once the date, time, and location are confirmed.  The
Margolis Healy report will be made available to the community in advance of
the forum, at which the community will have an opportunity to comment and
respond to the recommendations. Continuing to work with Margolis Healy, and
with input from our community, we plan to develop and execute an action
plan based on their recommendations over the course of the coming weeks and
months.

I am also very pleased to report that the College has engaged the services
of a search firm, Spelman and Johnson (www.spelmanandjohnson.com), to
assist the College in recruiting our new Director of Safety and Security.
Spelman and Johnson is a longtime partner of Margolis Healy and has a very
strong track record in securing top talent in higher education safety and
security management.



In advance, we want to thank all of those who have participated in this
important management study.  We remain very optimistic that this review
will yield important improvements in both policy and practice to promote
safety and inclusion on our campus and in our community.








I know that the Ferguson tragedy has affected many in our community.  Our
thoughts are with the family and friends of Michael Brown, and the Ferguson
community.  I support President Obama’s call for continued dialogue and
engagement on these difficult issues of race and justice in our society.



At Vassar, we have work to do in the coming months and beyond around a
number of related challenges.  First, we must make changes to guarantee
that no racial profiling occurs on our campus and that all members of our
community and visitors to campus feel welcome.  Second, as a residential
educational institution, it is our responsibility to ensure that what
happens in classrooms, dining halls, student living spaces, and
extracurricular activities helps students and community members rise to the
challenges that our country faces in creating a society that is fair and
equitable for all.



At 6pm this evening, there will be a rally “Black lives matter!” in the
city of Poughkeepsie at 150 North Hamilton Street.  Vans will be leaving
from Main Circle between 5pm and 6pm for those who would like to
attend.  After the rally, those who would like to gather can do so in the
Villard Room.



I also want to update the community on the safety and security study that
is being conducted by Margolis Healy.  We expect to receive their report by
the end of this week and will make it available in full to our entire
community at that time. Steven Healy will be on campus Tuesday evening,
December 2, to present the findings and recommendations of the report.  He
will also return to campus at the start of the second semester to work with
us on implementation. Details on how to access the report and the time and
location of Steven Healy’s presentation will be sent out by email.



This is a stressful time for many at Vassar.  For support, please reach out
to friends, family, and members of our community, including faculty,
administrators, and our counseling services.



I hope everyone who plans to travel in the next couple of days will be able
to do so in spite of the predicted snow. I wish you a holiday filled with
family and friends.








This is a challenging time for our community, with a number of important
issues being raised related to the climate on our campus. We strongly
believe in a community that supports all of our students, faculty, and
staff, and we are committed to doing all that we can to achieve that goal.

As part of these ongoing efforts, I would like to propose a number of
opportunities for members of the community to share their concerns and
opinions and participate in discussions that I believe can improve the
experience for everyone on campus.

First, a reminder that there is a forum this evening in the Villard Room at
7 pm at which Steven Healy will present the findings and recommendations
resulting from his firm's review of Vassar's Safety and Security department
and operations.  The college contracted with Margolis Healy to undertake
this study last spring in response to concerns about racial profiling. They
have been working with the college throughout this semester, including
meeting with students, faculty, and alumnae/i.  I know that many in the
community have invested time and effort in this study and are anxious to
engage in a discussion of the recommendations.



 I also would like to announce the appointment of a coordinating group to
help facilitate and monitor the implementation of Margolis Healy's
recommendations.  This group will include administrators in the Dean of the
College area and senior administrators who have been working on campus
climate issues, plus the faculty, students, and administrators on the
Safety and Security advisory committee, and two additional students
appointed by the VSA.



Because there are other campus issues we know members of the community want
to discuss, beginning tomorrow Dean Roellke and I will be making specific
hours available to meet with small groups of students.  We have been
meeting throughout the semester with members of the sophomore class in
groups of 10 to 25 and this has proven to be a productive model for hearing
student concerns and questions. Students who would like to meet with us can
contact Katie Bell (kabell, x5600) to schedule a time.  We also will be
making hours available after the semester break for those who prefer that
timing.



On Monday, December 8, the Campus Life and Diversity staff will be holding
a facilitated dialogue for students on campus climate from 6:30 to 8 pm.
The location will be announced by email. I hope many of you will be able to
take advantage of this opportunity.



Several members of the Board of Trustees will be here before the end of the
semester to meet with interested members of the community on campus issues.
I will confirm the date and other details in the next couple of days.



We also will be sponsoring a series of town hall-style meetings on specific
topics. Some of the topic suggestions have come from the meetings Dean
Roellke and I have had with sophomores, and others have been on students'
minds more broadly.  Among the topics we plan to address are the
curriculum, Title IX policies and procedures, sexual assault  prevention, a
campus safety and security follow-up, the allocation of resources for
student services, and campus climate issues related to identity. We welcome
your thoughts on these and other topics.



I think that these ongoing discussions, where we can listen and speak with
one another frankly, and search for solutions that work for the community,
are the only way to assure that we can make progress. I look forward to
talking with many of you soon.  Until then, please feel free to reach out
with other ideas or concerns.







Welcome back to campus.  I hope your travels were not too disrupted by the
snowstorm.



As we move into the new semester, I believe we will make further progress
in building a community that supports everyone.  I appreciate the hard work
of many on campus toward this goal, and I am very much looking forward to
continuing to engage with you in this effort.



The college has created a new website (
 to inform you of our
progress on the commitments that we made in December to strengthen our
community, as well as recent events and those planned for the spring that
focus on dialogue across differences. We will use this as a way to continue
to communicate with our community and report on progress as the semester
goes on.  There will be lots of opportunities for continued discussions
about how we can create a more inclusive campus, where all members are and
feel valued and listened to. The timing and details of many of these events
sponsored by faculty, administrators, and students are available at




Among the events coming up soon are two collaborations with the Bardavon
Theatre and the City of Poughkeepsie School District to present
award-winning programs that address racism. Rhapsody in Black (Friday,
February 6, 7:00pm) is LeLand Gantt’s one-man play about his life as an
African-American seeking to transcend racism. Through a Lens Darkly
(Friday, February 20, 7:00pm) is the first documentary film to explore the
critical role of photography in shaping African-American identity from
slavery to the present. Both programs will be followed by a panel
discussion with prominent local African-American scholars, artists,
students, and community leaders. Later in the semester, Jon Lee Anderson,
staff writer for The New Yorker, will hold a free public lecture for the
Vassar and Poughkeepsie communities on the challenges writers face on
difficult subjects under challenging conditions, whether ethnic or
religious conflict, terrorism, poverty and/or disease.



I hope you will take advantage of as many of these opportunities as
possible, and continue to work with all of us who are committed to positive
change.



Again, welcome back.







You may have read in the New York Times or in other media the wonderful
announcement that Vassar has been awarded the inaugural $1 million Cooke
Prize for Equity in Educational Excellence from the Jack Kent Cooke
Foundation.  The award both recognizes and will support our efforts to
recruit and support talented low-income students.



Many people at the college have been committed to increasing and supporting
the diversity of the Vassar community.  I want to acknowledge and thank you
for your efforts.  We know we have more work to do to fully support such a
community, and I welcome your continued commitment and ideas as we move
ahead.  We have much to be proud of and much good work to build on.







      As we approach Commencement, when over 600 of our students will be
graduating, and as we look forward to getting to know the members of the
class of 2019, who were recently admitted, I would like to take a moment to
acknowledge the work of so many of you in supporting the college.  During
this year, in collaboration with many of you, the college has been able to
undertake a number of important initiatives aimed at strengthening our
campus community. I want to report on what we have accomplished, as well as
note some plans for the future.



   - We can all take pride in Vassar’s being awarded the inaugural $1
   million Cooke Prize for Equity in Educational Excellence from the Jack Kent
   Cooke Foundation. The prize was awarded to Vassar for its commitment to
   attracting and graduating low-income students. It is the country’s largest
   award recognizing a college’s efforts toward achieving an economically
   diverse campus. We will apply the funds to programs for lower-income
   students, “first generation” students, and undocumented students, or
   “DREAMers.”  Specifically, this will include increased support to the
   college’s “Transitions” program, greater support for summer internships for
   students who can’t presently afford to take advantage of valuable unpaid
   experiences, and increased financial aid for undocumented students, whose
   status precludes eligibility for government support.  We look forward to
   using the funds for these purposes over the next few years.



   - An important initiative during this academic year has been the review
   of our Safety and Security protocols and procedures by the consulting firm
   of Margolis Healy.  Their report, with short and longer-term
   recommendations, is available on the Strengthening Vassar website,
     We know that central
   to all of the improvements in this area is the appointment of a new
   director of Safety and Security. That search is well under way, with a very
   strong pool of candidates. On-campus interviews with the finalists are
   currently taking place, and we expect to announce the new director very
   soon. Details about the job description, the search committee, and search
   process are also available on the Strengthening Vassar site.



   - The college has taken steps to require all members of Safety and
   Security to have annual diversity and inclusion training. This training has
   been coordinated collaboratively between the Office of Campus Life and
   Diversity and the Office of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.  In
   addition, all new hires in Safety and Security receive a full orientation
   prior to beginning their employment. As part of the restructuring of Safety
   and Security, including the hiring of our new director, professionally
   facilitated workshops will be provided at a full-day retreat for both
   diversity training and team building prior to the start of the academic
   year.



   - Zachariah Mampilly, Associate Professor of Political Science and
   Director of Africana Studies, and Mia Mask, Associate Professor of
Film, have
   been working with the senior administration on issues of race and
inclusion*.
   Among their work has been research on the best model for senior-level
   leadership for institutional diversity and inclusion at Vassar, to help
   ensure that our campus is welcoming and free of discrimination and
   harassment. Approaches to this leadership at other colleges and
   universities have ranged from chief diversity officers to diversity
   councils. Mia and Zach have held multiple discussions for faculty and
   administrators this semester, as well as some initial conversations with
   students, to hear opinions on the most appropriate approaches to this work
   at Vassar. Early in the fall semester they will sponsor a panel of
   representatives from other colleges that have had either (or both) a chief
   diversity officer or a diversity council, to discuss the benefits of each.
   We would then expect to make a decision next year on our approach.



   - While these conversations continue, we believe the Committee on
   Inclusion and Excellence (CIE) has played and will continue to play an
   important role in promoting an inclusive campus.  They have made
   progress on a set of recommendations for next year that they are sharing
   with both the broader community and the administration this week.  Next
   year, the committee will continue its work, including shepherding
   discussion and implementation of its recommendations from this spring.



   - In December, several positions that had been academic-year only were
   increased to full-year. These positions in the Campus Life and Diversity
   area included the directors of the ALANA Center, the LGBTQ and Women’s
   Centers, the Office of Health Education, the coordinator of the Sexual
   Assault and Violence Prevention (SAVP) program, and the Rose and Irving
   Rachlin Director for Jewish Student Life. In addition, all house advisors
   will be full-time, full-year within residential life, resulting in
   increased student support resources within each residential house.



   - I am pleased to report that Rabbi Kerry Chaplin has accepted the
   position of Rachlin Director for Jewish Student Life and we look forward to
   working with her when she begins her duties in mid-August.  Unfortunately,
   we will miss the services of Luz Burgos-Lopez, Director of the ALANA
   Center, and Julian Williams, Director of Equal Opportunity and Affirmative
   Action and Title IX Officer, who have accepted positions at other
   institutions.  Luz will be Assistant Dean of Students for Intercultural
   Affairs at Goucher College, and Julian will be serving as Vice President
   for Compliance, Diversity and Ethics at George Mason University.  The
   search for an ALANA Center director is currently under way, and the search
   for the Title IX officer will take place over the summer. We are very
   fortunate that Kelly Grab, who has been a house advisor and Assistant
   Director of Residential Life, has accepted the new full-time position of
   Title IX Investigator and also has agreed to serve as Acting Title IX
   Coordinator, effective June 1, while the search is being conducted.



   - Staffing has been increased and all positions are now filled in the
   Counseling Service, with the hiring of the assistant director, an
   additional psychological counselor, and the creation of a permanent
   post-bac fellow position*. As was reported previously, we have
   established a Mental Health and Wellness Support Fund to eliminate any
   financial barriers to students for accessing services on and off campus.



   - This spring Vassar conducted a first-time survey of all students
   concerning sexual misconduct, dating violence, and stalking on campus.  Our
   goal for the survey is to gain institutional self-knowledge about
   student experience related to these critical issues. The survey was
   designed by representatives from roughly 15 selective, private colleges,
   including Amherst, Bryn Mawr, Middlebury, Bowdoin, Williams, Tufts,
   Connecticut College, Trinity College, Wesleyan, and others in addition to
   Vassar.  The representatives included institutional research personnel,
   those formally administering Title IX regulations, campus personnel charged
   with sexual assault prevention and adjudication, and campus mental and
   physical health services staff.  Our response rate was strong, with about
   45 percent of the student body completing the survey. Most schools are
   reporting final response rates in the range from 25 percent to 35 percent.
   The data collected by the survey will be analyzed over the summer, and
   findings presented to campus during the fall semester.



   - During this academic year the Sexual Assault and Violence Prevention
   (SAVP) program facilitated several hours of bystander intervention training
   for students, as well as training for faculty, staff, and administrators
   interested in being trainers for the Mentor In Violence Prevention (MVP)
   program.  Our intention is that with additional trainers we can have
   more frequent bystander workshops beginning in the fall.  We also have
   approved two work-study positions to support peer bystander training for
   the coming academic year.



   - SAVP and the Office of Health Education also facilitated workshops on
   alcohol and consent for student fellows and house teams.  As part of
   orientation, staff are bringing in a new group called "Speak About It"
   to present to the incoming class. They are a diverse group of five
   performers who will primarily address issues of consent, sexual assault on
   college campuses, and being an active bystander. Following up on that
   presentation, volunteer peer educators will facilitate small group
   discussions about bystander intervention.  Additionally, 269 members of
   the faculty attended workshops on the College’s Title IX commitments; these
   were completed just prior to the winter break.



   - There have been a number of campus conversations as part of the
   overall efforts to strengthen community. In late February, Board of
   Trustees chair William Plapinger, along with several other trustees, met
   with about a dozen student groups to hear their concerns and their ideas
   about improving campus life. All trustees engaged in related conversations
   at the February meeting, at a plenary session and at the meeting of the
   student affairs committee. Faculty will have the opportunity to discuss how
   to foster inclusive classrooms at their retreat later this week titled
   “Beyond Access: a Tool-Kit of Inclusive Pedagogy.”



   - Dean of the College Chris Roellke and I continue our discussions with
   small groups of sophomores.  These conversations are wide-ranging,
   including any topic that is on the students’ minds.  To date we have had
   over thirty of these gatherings and every member of the sophomore class has
   been invited to engage in these discussions. Vice President for Finance and
   Administration Bob Walton and I also have been continuing our small group
   discussions with administrators and staff across campus. This is our second
   year of hosting these conversations, and I am pleased that we are now on
   our second round of reaching out to all of these employees.



   - I would end by encouraging individuals and groups to take advantage of
   the Dialogue and Engagement across Differences Fund that is available from
   the Office of the President, thanks to the generosity of a donor. We have
   used the fund this year to support talks and panels on a range of complex
   subjects, 
   Looking ahead, I would ask the community to consider ways to use the
   fund for activities that highlight and support multiple perspectives on
   difficult issues.  This is our real challenge: to meet the growing need
   to hear from several voices on tough issues. To that end, we will soon be
   issuing clarifying guidelines for the fund. We have asked Professor
   Mampilly and Professor Mask to play a role in developing and approving
   proposals to the fund next year and will request that the VSA nominate a
   student to participate.



   - I would like to highlight one event supported with Dialogue and
   Engagement across Differences funds that will continue to have importance
   for the campus going forward. In January, 28 faculty, administrators and
   students participated in a two-day pilot workshop on leadership and
   dialogue around difficult issues conducted by the National Coalition
   Building Institute (NCBI). NCBI is an international leadership development
   network dedicated to the elimination of racism, anti-Semitism, and other
   forms of oppression. The goal of the workshop was to train an initial group
   of people on campus who can then work with others across multiple
   constituencies. Funds now have been approved for NCBI to build a Campus
   Team featuring a series of workshops in the fall of 2015, expanding the
   number of people in the campus community trained in effective techniques
   for dialogue. Those who receive the training can then employ their skills
   on campus and also train others within their organizations and
groups.  Senior
   officers will be among the first group to participate. Planning for next
   year’s workshops has begun and will continue through this spring and summer.



      I quoted New York Times columnist Frank Bruni at Convocation, and I
think his message is worth repeating. In his recent book on college
admissions, he commented on the value of a diverse college community by
saying that “[w]ith exclusivity often comes sameness, and there’s an
argument that college shouldn’t take you out of the real world, but thrust
you into it, exposing you to places unlike the ones you’ve already
inhabited and people different from the ones who’ve surrounded you thus
far.”  By doing this, we enrich the educational experience at Vassar and
prepare our students to be effective advocates for greater justice and
opportunity in the world after graduation.










As we begin this new school year, the college is continuing its deep
commitment to the health and safety of all members in our community by
joining the It’s On Us campaign.

It’s On Us is a growing national program for the prevention of sexual
assault that relies on each member of a community taking responsibility to
act when necessary. At Vassar we are asking everyone to contribute to
creating an environment where sexual assault is unacceptable and survivors
are supported, whether it is in a dorm room, at a party, at an athletics or
organizational event, or anywhere else on campus.  As students, faculty,
administrators, and staff, it’s on us to make that happen, to take actions
that help prevent sexual assault.

The national statistics on campus sexual assault are sobering – data
suggest one in five women and one in sixteen men will be sexually assaulted
during their time at college. Vassar is joining thousands of schools from
around the country to become part of the It’s On Us campaign to end this
damaging trend. In coordination with the campaign, Vassar’s Sexual Assault
& Violence Prevention (SAVP) program will host a series of programs
throughout the academic year. Additionally, the SAVP program has trained 14
new Mentors In Violence Prevention  program
facilitators who will be available for ongoing bystander education.

In addition to supporting this national movement, we have refined Vassar’s
policies to be in alignment with recent changes in law on the state level. In
July, Governor Cuomo passed Article 129-B of the New York State Education
Law, referred to as “Enough is Enough.” Since then, Vassar’s Office of
Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action (EOAA) has been diligently making
sure that the college is meeting all state and federal expectations in ways
that best address the needs of our campus. Although the college was fully
compliant with the spirit of the new legislation, the following items have
been adjusted to be fully consistent with the law and with other colleges
and universities in New York:

   - We adopted the uniform definition of affirmative consent and
   incapacitation;


   - We provided provisions for additional alcohol and other drug amnesty
   for bystanders and/or reporting individuals;


   - The Students’ Bill of Rights has been streamlined and is inclusive
   of all students (attached);


   - We have provided for emergency access to the Title IX Coordinator or
   other investigator upon first disclosure of an incident;


   - There is a provision for assistance from appropriate institutional
   representatives in initiating legal proceedings in family court or
   civil court;


   - A transcript notation is now mandatory for students suspended or
   expelled for Clery reportable crimes;


   - We provide comprehensive orientation and ongoing education*,
   including required violence prevention training*, for all student
   athletes and student organization leaders;


   - We have committed to conducting a campus climate survey at least
   every other year;


   - We now report aggregate data and information about reports of
   domestic violence, dating violence, stalking, and sexual assault to the New
   York State Education Department.



There are a couple of other updates I want to add:



Returning students may remember having participated in the “What Happens
Here: Gender-based Violence” survey. The Offices of Equal Opportunity &
Affirmative Action, Sexual Assault & Violence Prevention, and Health
Education, in close collaboration with the Office of Institutional
Research, have been analyzing and studying the data from that assessment
over the summer and will present the findings from this survey to the
community later this semester.



Additionally, in an effort to increase transparency, the complete
procedural guide for Title IX hearings is now published in the Student
Handbook
.




For more information about these items please refer to the College
Regulations section of the Student Handbook
. If you
have specific questions contact Kelly Grab, Assistant Director of
EOAA/Interim Title IX Coordinator at kegrab@vassar.edu.



For more information about prevention education and support services
contact Charlotte Strauss Swanson, Sexual Assault & Violence Prevention
Coordinator, at chstraussswanson@vassar.edu.

Again, I urge everyone to visit ItsOnUs.org  to share
in this commitment.



This wonderful weather might tempt us into thinking otherwise, but fall is here, officially now, and with it so much activity in and outside of our classrooms and offices. If you feel as I do, this point in the semester came very quickly; it seems such a short time ago that students were moving back into residence halls and apartments.
 Among those students we welcomed a very diverse group of 668 freshmen from throughout the country and the world. In addition to the new class's strong academic background --  including 30 high school valedictorians, 15 salutatorians, and 19 National Honor Society presidents -- the class is also diverse in numerous ways. More than 35 percent of the freshmen are students of color, including U.S. citizens and non-citizens; 43 percent are men; 97 are first-generation college students; and 89 are international students with either foreign or dual citizenship. One hundred fifty-one students are fully bilingual or speak English as a second language. Sixty-two percent are receiving need-based financial aid from the college, demonstrating Vassar’s strong commitment to recruiting talented students from across the socioeconomic spectrum. I am pleased that for the second year Vassar has been recognized by the New York Times' College Access Index as one of the top colleges doing the most for low-income students. The top private college in the index, Vassar ranked 8th overall. Karlene Williams and Keith Kohlmann are among the veterans at Vassar and were featured recently on public radio's Marketplace. Photo: Amy Scott/Marketplace
 Ten members of the first year class are veterans of the United States armed services, the third group of veterans to enroll as freshmen as part of the college’s partnership with the Posse Foundation that began in 2013. Public radio’s Marketplace recently featured the Vassar Veterans’ Program in a series of three stories:http://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12250&eid=121759http://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12249&eid=121759http://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12248&eid=121759http://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12247&eid=121759http://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12246&eid=121759D’Angelo Mori ’19, a Transitions student             Photo: Amy Scott/Marketplace As some of you know, part of Vassar’s orientation for new students includes an important introduction to the college and college life through our Transitions Program for low-income, first-generation, and veteran students. Transitions also was featured recently on Marketplace. Reporter Amy Scott interviewed several of us, including students Gabriel Ramos ’17, Catherine Hernandez ’19, and D’Angelo Mori ‘19; Director of Residential Life Luis Inoa; and Dean of Studies Ben Lotto.http://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12245&eid=121759
As we were preparing to welcome the newest members of the community to campus, approximately 200 of our students and faculty, as well as many visitors to campus, were wrapping up productive summers of research and other educational opportunities on campus. One of those programs, Vassar’s Exploring Transfer, or ET, program celebrated its 30th year this summer. ET helps community college students envision themselves continuing their educations at selective four-year colleges. Since 1985 more than a thousand community college students have immersed themselves in the residential liberal arts college experience through the five-week ET program, and most of those students have gone on to transfer to four-year  including Vassar. Among them is Yolanda Martin '05, who came to Vassar from LaGuardia Community College in New York City. Now a sociology professor at the Borough of Manhattan Community College, Martin began teaching for the ET program in 2014. In  Yolanda talks about her ET experiences, as a student and now a faculty member.
More than 130 Vassar students and faculty members in the sciences and the humanities were involved in research projects over the summer through the Undergraduate Research Summer Institute (URSI) and Ford Scholars programs. In addition, 36 students and faculty were involved in projects through the Creative Arts Across Disciplines (CAAD) program, a three-year initiative at Vassar funded by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation. A team of students also was enrolled this summer in the college’s Community Fellows program, which matches our students’ skills and interests with the needs of local not-for-profit agencies. You can watch a video about the Community Fellows program  mobile Collaboratory, a performance/exhibition space used for the Creative Arts Across Disciplines projects URSI research included topics ranging from Tau proteins implicated in Alzheimer’s disease to nano-scale thermodynamics, and Ford scholars explored topics as diverse as the cultural impacts of the Ashokan Reservoir to promoting educational opportunities in La Paz Centro, Nicaragua. Among the CAAD projects, students participated in “Healing Narratives: De-Stigmatizing Trauma and Illness through the Senses.” The students interviewed people in hospice care about their lives, and influenced by these conversations they wrote, choreographed, and performed a series of vignettes titled “In the Light.” 

Among other projects, you can learn more about groundbreaking URSI research to protect the ash trees on Vassar’s Ecological Preserve, and on lead and mercury pollution over the Catskill Mountain region on Vassar’s  This year’s URSI Symposium will be held Sept. 30, with keynote speaker Felice Frankel, research scientist in the Center for Materials Science and Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), and noted scientific photographer.
An important cultural offering in the Hudson Valley during the summer, the Powerhouse Theater season brought 300 artists and several thousand audience members to campus over six weeks, and I hope some of you were able to see some of the productions.  A collaboration between Vassar and New York Stage and Film, Powerhouse focuses on the development of new plays andhttp://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12239&eid=121759 musicals and on the training of aspiring young theater artists. This summer’s offerings included a new play by Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Ayad Akhtar (Disgraced) and by the composer Duncan Sheik, who received a Tony for Spring Awakening. Many of the works developed here go on to productions on Broadway and off-Broadway and at other theaters around the country. Lin-Manuel Miranda’s Hamilton had an early public reading at Powerhouse two summers ago, for example (and no, unfortunately, we can’t get you tickets!). You can learn more about the Powerhouse experience 
It is impossible to miss the continuing progress on the "bridge building," with the project on schedule to be completed by the beginning of the spring semester. It will be wonderful to have this centerpiece of the Integrated Science Center available for students and faculty, adding this spectacular 80,000-square-foot facility to the already renovated Sanders Physics, New England, and Olmsted Hall. Having been through the bridge building recently, I am certain that many of us on campus, whether in the sciences or not, will take advantage of the building’s interior and outside gathering spaces. Vassar’s project manager Robert Nilsson provides a video walk-through below.http://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12237&eid=121759
Work is beginning on the renovation of a 5,600-square-foot wing of the historic Vassar Barn to function as a new hub for environmental science research, outreach and education partnerships on the Vassar Farm and Ecological Preserve. This project has been made possible by a generous grant from The Leona M. and Harry B. Helmsley Charitable Trust. The funds have provided for the establishment of the Vassar Conservation and Environmental Engagement Cooperative (VCEE-COOP), which will centralize environmental outreach and education activities and encourage use of Vassar’s environmental resources by the college, community residents, and other visitors. Renovations will preserve the open feel of the original barn building, while creating a light-filled space where sliding dividers allow flexible use for offices, meetings, exhibits, and other activities.Liz Titus Putnam '55, second from left, with l to r, Keri VanCamp, manager of the Vassar Ecological Preserve, faculty research associate in biology Elise Hefferman '12, and regional SCA program director Kathy Baugh
A very special part of the VCEE-COOP project is the relocation of the Hudson Valley Corps of the Student Conservation Association (SCA) to the renovated barn. The Student Conservation Association was the brainchild of Elizabeth Titus Putnam ‘55 when she was a student at Vassar. Liz posed the idea in her senior thesis, an idea that was adopted enthusiastically around the country. Her call for a volunteer corps of young people to become stewards of our national parks and other public land led to the creation of the SCA, an organization that has attracted more than 70,000 young people since it was launched in 1957. The relocation of the SCA Hudson Valley Corps was announced this June when Liz was on campus for her 60th reunion. 
Through the efforts of many on campus, we continue to work on increasing our energy conservation. Thanks to the work of Bryan Swarthout, Vassar’s Director of Budget and Planning, and Alistair Hall ’11, Sustainability Coordinator, the college has committed to two renewable energy projects that will go into effect over the course of the 2015/2016 year, and allow us to generate a significant portion of our electricity from renewable sources. 
 The first is a 2MW solar project with BQ Energy, a Poughkeepsie-based renewable energy developer. Under the Remote Net Metering Agreement we have signed with BQ, they will construct a solar array on a decommissioned landfill and Vassar will be credited all the electricity that the site produces. Vassar will save more than $50,000 per year, while sourcing 13 percent of our electricity renewably. The second project is a 1.95MW small­-scale, run­-of­-river hydro project with Gravity Renewables. This is an existing facility that already generates electricity, and Vassar has already begun seeing the benefits of this project, through which the college will save more than $30,000 per year, while sourcing 9 percent of our electricity renewably. The College Committee on Sustainability partnered with the Environmental Defense Fund’s (EDF) Climate Corps program for the second time this summer. One Climate Corps fellow led the analysis of potential structures for an internal carbon tax implemented at the college. Such a program would incentivize behavior by departments and other offices to save energy and resources, reduce college greenhouse gas emissions, and serve as a model for other colleges and universities on how to take action on the climate crisis. The College Committee on Sustainability continues to work on this idea and on changes to consider for moving to carbon neutrality. The second fellow studied campus energy and electricity usage and determined ways in which that data could be better stored and managed. Accessible data should allow us to have a greater understanding of energy usage across campus, and from that, an understanding of the need for energy efficiency projects over the short and long term.Andrew AshtonRabbi Kerry ChaplinBethel Nathan Arlene SaboMichelle Walsh
 Several important searches were completed in the late spring and early summer, bringing a number of new talented people to the college. I know you will enjoy meeting each of them when you have the opportunity. Here are just brief highlights: 
Andrew Ashton is the new Director of Libraries at Vassar. Most recently Andy was Associate University Librarian for Digital Technologies and co-head of the Center for Digital Scholarship at Brown University. Prior to that he served as systems librarian at Skidmore College and music librarian for Radio Free Asia in Washington D.C. He oversees all library operations: Thompson Memorial Library, Lockwood and Ingram libraries, Archives and Special Collections, Van Ingen Art Library, George Sherman Dickinson Music Library, and the Digital Library.  Rabbi Kerry Chaplin is the Rose and Irving Rachlin Director for Jewish Student Life, responsible for religious, spiritual, and cultural leadership of Jewish student life at the college. Kerry received her Master of Arts in Rabbinic Studies and her Rabbinic Ordination from the Ziegler School of Rabbinic Studies in Los Angeles. For the past two years she had been Rabbinic Intern for the Hillel Foundation at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). Kerry has created an innovative curriculum for Talmud study, and written about relationship-building between descendants of Holocaust victims and perpetrators. She has also been a fellow at NewGround, a Muslim-Jewish dialogue group. Bethel “B” Nathan is the new director of the Campus Life ALANA Center, responsible for directing the African American, Latino/a, Asian and Native American Cultural Center and working with Campus Life and Diversity and other offices on various diversity initiatives across the college. From 2007 Bethel worked at Colorado State University, most recently as assistant director for campus programming, where she led numerous diversity and student leadership projects for students of color. She also served as a co-chair for a faculty and staff networking committee and is a facilitator for the nationally recognized LeaderShape Institute.  Arlene Sabo has joined Vassar as the new Director of Safety and Security. Arlene brings a breadth of experience to the position. Since 2001, she served as chief of university police at SUNY Plattsburgh. She previously served as director of the equity commission at SUNY Plattsburgh and advised Clinton County, New York, on the Violence Intervention Project (VIP). She also has had extensive experience in Title IX, CLERY disclosure, and emergency management. At SUNY Plattsburgh, Arlene chaired the task force on fair and impartial policing and the president's commission on personal safety.  Michelle Walsh is our new Director of Athletics and Physical Education. Michelle comes to Vassar from the State University of New York at Geneseo, where she was Associate Director of Athletics. She supervised 11 of the 20 NCAA Division III intercollegiate sports at SUNY Geneseo, as well as the athletic training and communications staffs. Notably this past year, SUNY Geneseo earned the State University of New York Athletic Conference's prestigious Dr. Patrick R. Damore Commissioner's Cup, given to the member school that exhibits the strongest overall athletic program for the academic year.
We will continue this fall to explore the best model for senior diversity leadership at the college. As I have reported previously, colleges and universities have found chief diversity officers and diversity councils to be two effective ways to coordinate and strengthen this work. Vassar is considering each of these approaches. The chief diversity officers at Bates and Dickinson colleges were on campus earlier this month to meet with senior officers and others.Last weekend's Families Weekend reception on the library lawn
 I want to remind you that funds continue to be available this year from the President’s Office for Dialogue and Engagement Across Differences programs. The funds are to support programs that examine controversial issues facing Vassar and society at large. Topics need to engage a cross-section of the Vassar campus and explore social issues from multidimensional perspectives. The inclusion of multiple voices and opinions is central to program funding consideration. For more information, please see the  One recent program supported through the fund was a panel discussion, “Bridging the Racial Divide in the College Classroom and Beyond: A Conversation.” This event provided an opportunity for discussion among members of the campus community and invited panelists of issues related to race, equality, access, and privilege. Panelists included Ivory Toldson, the deputy director of the White House initiative to increase the number of young black men in higher education; Marcia Chatelain, a Georgetown University scholar of African American History; Indiana Garcia ‘11, a trainer in the Posse program in Los Angeles; Shaka King ‘01, a filmmaker and recipient of this year’s Vassar W. K. Rose Fellowship; and Zachariah Mampilly, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the Africana Studies program. Professor of Film Mia Mask served as the moderator.The neighborhood street fair last weekend
We are fortunate to have an array of speakers on campus this year, including Angela Davis, whose talk last week to an overflow Chapel audience was sponsored by Women's Studies in honor of the program’s 30th anniversary; Larry Siems, this year’s Starr Lecturer, who is the editor of Guantánamo Diary, by Mohamedou Ould Slahi, last evening; Michelle Monje-Deisseroth ’98, Sept. 28, internationally noted scientist and physician who has done ground-breaking research on brain cancer in children; and Larry Kramer, award-winning playwright, public health and gay rights activist, Oct. 28. In addition we will sponsor New York Times op-ed columnist Frank Bruni on February 15 for a talk titled “Demanding More from College.” On April 12 we will be bringing Krista Tippitt, journalist, author, and host of the public radio program On Being, to campus for a talk titled “Creating Civility.”
I encourage you to keep up with all of the events and news related to campus through the  email that is published Mondays and Thursdays during the academic year and through the college  and  
I feel very optimistic about the year ahead. As a community we have worked hard to respond to the financial crisis of several years ago, and now we are turning to the future. An important component of that is our campus master planning process, which we will complete later this year. We will be having a series of meetings with members of our community during the fall semester to share some of the priorities and the choices that have resulted from that process. The college is the remarkable place that it is because of our talented faculty, staff, and students, and our alumnae/i and families who support the college in myriad ways. I want to thank each of you for all that you do.
 Catharine Hill Presidenthttp://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12232&suid=a47b0adc-cc54-4b45-b46c-1ed82f9c08ff&eid=121759http://connect.vassar.edu/redirect.aspx?linkID=12231&eid=121759 | Vassar College Box 14 124 Raymond Avenue | Poughkeepsie, New York 12604  | (800) 443-8196 | (845) 437-5400
This message was sent to you by the Office of Alumnae/i Affairs and Development of Vassar College.
You may remove yourself from future mailings. Thank you. 



I am writing to inform the community that for the next few weeks, at least
through October break, Ben Lotto, Dean of Studies, will serve as Acting
Dean of the College, while Chris Roellke recovers from surgery for a
detached retina.  I am grateful to Ben for agreeing to take on these
responsibilities. In Chris's absence, Dean of the Faculty Jon Chenette will
oversee the Title IX Office.

I know you join me in sending Chris our best for his recovery.





The timetable for Dean Christopher Roellke’s recovery from retinal surgery
has been updated, and he will not return to the Dean of the College Office
before the end of the semester.  I have asked Dean of Studies Ben Lotto,
who has been Acting Dean of the College, to continue in this role until
Chris’s return.  I am grateful that Ben has agreed to this extension.
Janet Gray, Professor of Psychology, has graciously agreed to help out in
the Dean of Studies Office on a part-time basis for the remainder of the
semester as a class advisor to seniors.


In Chris's absence, Dean of the Faculty Jon Chenette will continue to
oversee the Title IX Office.

Please join me in wishing Chris our best for a full and timely recovery.





In late September a person posing as a Vassar student approached three of
our administrators indicating that she was experiencing distress related to
the distribution of the U.S. Constitution on campus.  In meetings with the
administrators, the imposter surreptitiously videotaped their
conversations, portions of which were then selectively included in a video.


It is clear that the impersonator was attempting to entrap members of our
staff whose responsibilities include providing an unbiased, empathetic
response to students who express being in distress and a referral to other
appropriate resources on campus. Our administrators responded with the
integrity and skill they apply to similar reports of students in distress,
making sure that students are aware of the multiple support systems
available to them.  It is unacceptable that someone would take advantage of
our administrators’ openness in such a dishonest and fraudulent way.


The group behind this activity is one known to have targeted other
organizations and individuals in an attempt to discredit them in a variety
of ways, including through the use of criminal actions.


We are continuing to monitor the reactions to this video and will be
responding appropriately.  Should you have questions or concerns please
contact my office, the Dean of the College or the Dean of the Faculty.








I am writing to recognize this very painful and tumultuous time in America
and on the Vassar campus.  We must face the work we still have to do to
live up to our ideals of equality and justice by confronting racism in our
society and on our campus.   We see the pain that is being experienced by
students of color on the University of Missouri campus, at Yale University,
at other colleges and universities around the country and most importantly
on the Vassar campus. We know that here at Vassar racism continues to
exist. We are committed to making the institutional changes needed to
create a place of real belonging and respect for every member of our
community. We have been working over the last few years to make Vassar a
stronger and healthier place, and many of you have contributed great effort
to improving circumstances on campus.  But we still have much work to do. I
look forward to doing this work with you and building the community we want
to be.







In the midst of much turmoil and pain in the world and on college campuses
because of racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia and other forms of
discrimination, I believe that progress toward creating the kind of
communities and campuses we want requires commitments and actions from all
of us. These actions can be small or far-reaching but need to be rooted in
respect and empathy. Many of you are deeply engaged in this work; I know
some have been doing it over a long period of time. I am grateful for all
that you do.



Last year, the college set out goals addressing issues of diversity,
equity, public safety, sexual assault, and other problems. Since then, we
have made a number of changes at Vassar.  We have added new people and new
initiatives in order to make significant positive changes in our community.
What follows below is a progress report addressing those activities from
many areas of the college. Please know these are highlights about work
currently underway; this is certainly not a comprehensive list of
contributions.



We know there is much more work ahead of us. I am committed to continuing
this work, and I welcome all of your thoughts and suggestions for
additional ways we can improve our community.  Please contact me, any of
the senior officers, or others involved in this work, with your ideas. I
believe we are on the right path and am optimistic that with your insights
and initiative, we can continue to build a community that supports everyone
here.






Campus Leadership

   - Over the past several months leaders in crucial areas of building
   community have joined the college:

      - Rabbi Kerry Chaplin is the Rose and Irving Rachlin Director for
      Jewish Student Life, providing religious, spiritual, and cultural
      leadership. She also provides interreligious leadership in her role as
      Assistant Director, Office of Religious and Spiritual Life.


   - Bethel “B” Nathan, the Director of the Campus Life ALANA Center, is
      providing support for students and working with others on
diversity across
      campus.


   - Arlene Sabo, Director of Safety and Security, brings experience and
      commitment to the fair and impartial operation of that department.  She
      also is heading up the work of addressing recommendations of the Margolis
      Healy report on Safety and Security. For example, Arlene and B have
      collaborated on providing continued diversity training to officers in
      Safety and Security. Training has taken place this semester and more is
      planned for the spring.


   - Rachel Pereira, Vassar’s new Director of Equal Opportunity and Title
      IX Officer, will begin her work in January. She is currently the Title IX
      Coordinator and Affirmative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity
Officer at
      Drew University.  We are thankful to Kelly Grab for serving as the
      Acting Title IX Officer during the search process.  With Rachel’s
      arrival, Kelly will return full-time to her role as Title IX Investigator.


   - Additionally, several key members of our staff directly supporting
   students are now working full-year schedules, allowing them more time for
   program planning and collaboration, a change we instituted last December.
   Those include the directors of Jewish Student Life, the ALANA Center,
   the LGBTQ and Women’s Centers, the Office of Health Education, and the
   coordinator of the Sexual Assault and Violence Prevention (SAVP) program.


   - In an effort to provide more culturally sensitive support, the
   Counseling Service has increased the number of staff from under-represented
   groups.


   - In addition to the staffing changes, the Counseling Service now has a
   Mental Health and Wellness Support Fund to reduce financial barriers to
   services, both on and off campus, including resources to cover
   transportation and co-pay expenses.


   - Residential Life has adjusted responsibilities of House Advisors to
   allow house teams to give more time and focus to supporting students in the
   residences.


   - Several people on campus, with additional expertise from outside the
   college, have been assessing different approaches to senior diversity
   leadership, with the goal of determining the best approach for Vassar.


   - Mia Mask, Associate Professor of Film and Advisor to the Class of
      2018, and Bert Lott, Professor of Greek and Roman Studies and
chair of the
      Faculty Policy and Conference Committee (FPCC), are co-chairing an ad hoc
      group of faculty, staff, and students to lead this work.


   - Other members include Zachariah Mampilly, Associate Professor of
      Political Science, Director of the Africana Studies program, and current
      chair of the Committee on Inclusion and Excellence (CIE); David Bradley,
      Associate Professor of Physics and Astronomy and incoming CIE co-chair
      (along with Erendira Rueda, Associate Professor of Sociology);
Ed Pittman,
      Associate Dean of the College for Campus Life and Diversity; Art
Rodriguez,
      Dean of Admission and Financial Aid; VSA President Ramy Abbady; VSA Vice
      President for Finance Josh Tempro; and two additional faculty still to be
      appointed by the Committee on Committees.


   - The group has been charged with making a recommendation to President
      Hill this spring.


   - Earlier this fall, the college hosted two diversity officers, Michael
      Reed from Dickinson College and Crystal Williams from Bates College, as
      part of that consideration, to learn what chief diversity officers and
      diversity councils each can contribute to the college.



Addressing Title IX Issues



Sexual assault remains a serious problem on the Vassar campus, as it is at
schools across the country.  Staff in a number of offices, as well as
faculty and students, are continuing to build on Vassar’s commitment to
education and prevention.



   - With leadership from the Sexual Assault and Violence Prevention (SAVP)
   program, New Student Orientation provided enhanced sexual assault
   prevention education and bystander intervention training at orientation for
   first-year students in August.


   - New Student Orientation included several programs to promote inclusive
      and respectful learning and living environments. Among them are I am
      Vassar, which addresses questions of identity and community through
      storytelling and facilitated discussions with new students, and Speak
      about It, a performance-based program on consent, sexual assault and
      confronting gender-based violence.  In January Unpacking Vassar
will reconvene
      first year students for art-based performances and workshops to follow up
      on issues presented during orientation.


   - In line with new state legislation, the SAVP program staff and student
   interns have provided education on affirmative consent to the leaders of
   all student organizations and to all varsity athletes. Vassar's policy on
   consent had already been in line with the new law; the legislation called
   for additional training for students, which the college completed for this
   year in the fall.


   - The Title IX Survey Oversight Group, including Director of
   Institutional Research David Davis-Van Atta; SAVP Coordinator Charlotte
   Strauss Swanson; Kelly Grab, Title IX Investigator and Acting Title IX
   Officer; and Hannah Matsunaga ’16, last year’s VSA Vice President for
   Student Life, is finalizing the analysis of the results of the Title IX
   survey that students completed last spring.


   - The Survey Oversight Group has recommended that in order to include
   our new Director of Equal Opportunity and Title IX Officer Rachel Pereira
   and Dean of the College Chris Roellke, who has been on medical leave this
   semester, in the important campus discussions about the survey findings,
   they are scheduling the release of the findings and related events for the
   beginning of second semester.  An email to campus will confirm
   dates/times and provide locations for all events.


   - The Title IX survey results, the survey instrument, and related
   information will be posted on the Institutional Research website on Tues.,
   Jan. 26. Three open campus meetings with the oversight group and other
   key members of the community available to answer questions will be
held Mon.,
   Feb. 1, at 7 pm; Thurs., Feb. 4, at 5:30 pm; and Tues., Feb. 9, at 7 pm.
   Additionally, shorter presentations will be made at the administrative
   forum and the faculty meeting on Wed., Feb. 3.



Continuing Committee Work on Equity and Inclusion



   - Vassar's Bias Incident Response Team (BIRT) meets weekly in response
   to reported incidents and proactively to discuss concerns relating to
   campus climate.  In November, the web-based incident log was launched to
   update the campus community on bias incident reports. BIRT, along with
   Campus Life, Campus Activities, and other offices also will sponsor
   Privilege Campaign III, a photographic exhibit and education initiative on
   privilege and social justice, in April.


   - Last spring, Vassar was awarded the first Jack Kent Cooke Foundation
   Prize for Equity in Educational Excellence.  This award of a million
   dollars is the largest in the nation recognizing a college making strides
   in enrolling low-income students and supporting them to graduation.  The
   college is using these resources to support undocumented students at
   Vassar, to strengthen further our Transitions program for low-income and
   first-generation students, and to supply internships for lower income
   students.  Some funds have already been expended, and others are
   awaiting further recommendations on their use, in particular from the
   Committee on Inclusion and Excellence  subcommittee on historically
   underrepresented students.  These funds will be used to pilot programs
   that can then be incorporated into the ongoing budget.


   - In addition to following up on recommendations from last year, the
   Committee on Inclusion and Excellence (CIE) has established five
   subcommittees this year for the study of priority issues, outlined below.
   CIE will host a meeting to solicit feedback and advice regarding these and
   other issues in February. In addition, the meeting will offer an
   opportunity to hear updates regarding the implementation of recommendations
   put forth in last year's report.


   - The Historically Underrepresented Students subcommittee, led by Luis
      Inoa, Director of Residential Life and Assistant Dean of Students, is
      conducting a study of the experiences of undocumented, low-income, and
      first-generation students; will identify faculty and staff support for
      undocumented students; and consolidate resource information for
      underrepresented students at the college.


   - The International Student subcommittee, coordinated by Andrew Meade,
      Director of International Services and Assistant Dean for Campus Life and
      Diversity, is studying peer schools on their strategies and resources for
      international students; will track efforts to improve curricular
and campus
      access for international students, especially non-native English
speakers;
      improve understanding about financial aid resources; and examine college
      policies around international experiences for these students.


   - The Diversity Statement subcommittee, coordinated by Associate
      Professor of Physics and Astronomy David Bradley, is continuing
to work on
      the drafting and adoption of a new diversity statement for the college.


   - The Campus Wide Study, coordinated by Associate Dean of the College
      for Campus Life and Diversity Ed Pittman and Associate Professor of
      Sociology Erendira Rueda, will examine existing campus survey data and
      assess the need and feasibility of additional campus climate surveys.


   - The Social Justice Requirement subcommittee, coordinated by Associate
      Professor of Religion Jonathon Kahn, and a joint effort with the
Committee
      on Curricular Policy (CCP), is examining similar requirements at other
      institutions and assessing the possibilities of establishing a
requirement
      at Vassar.



Campus Dialogue and Education



   - Education about how to navigate different viewpoints, especially on
   complicated topics where beliefs can be very strong, is one of the most
   important things we can do as members of a college community.  Last year
   28 faculty, administrators, and students participated in a two-day workshop
   on engaging controversial issues facilitated by the National Coalition
   Building Institute (NCBI), an international network dedicated to the
   elimination of racism, classism, anti-Semitism, and other forms of
   oppression.  In August, President Hill and all of the senior officers
   participated in another NCBI workshop focused on working through
   differences with people of various backgrounds, opinions, and beliefs.
   These sessions were organized by the Campus Life and Diversity Office.


   -  Students have reported that in their classrooms differences among
   students not only add value to their learning, but also can result in a
   breakdown of communication and understanding.  Microaggressions in the
   classroom are harmful and painful.  In order to create environments
   supportive of all students, faculty have participated in and are planning
   discussions and workshops on making classrooms more inclusive and affirming.


   - Building on the successful faculty retreat last year, this spring’s
   retreat will again focus on inclusive pedagogy, with students helping to
   inform the planning and content by sharing their experiences.  Marcia
   Chatelain, Associate Professor of History at Georgetown University, and a
   scholar of a wide array of issues in African-American history, including
   African-American migration and women and girls' history, will facilitate
   the retreat.


   - Other faculty discussions have included a focus on inclusion in the
   STEM fields and a workshop on mental health issues and inclusivity.
Upcoming
   in early December is the Penn Summit on Responding to Racism on College
   Campuses, a virtual summit on issues of race, racism, campus climate, and
   inclusive pedagogies, to which our faculty and senior officers have been
   invited. The summit will be conducted by Shaun Harper, Executive Director
   of the Center for the Study of Race and Equity in Education at the
   University of Pennsylvania.


   - A number of departments, programs, offices, and student organizations
   have developed or sponsored programming in recent months that offers
   constructive approaches to important issues. Many of these programs have
   had support from the Fund for Dialogue and Engagement across Differences
   through the President’s Office.  Thanks to a generous alumna, these
   funds continue to be available for the coming semester and next academic
   year. Recent programs have included the following:


   - Last Sunday, the Vassar Jewish Union hosted an afternoon of
      intra-group dialogue facilitated by “Resetting the Table” for over 20
      students from different Jewish backgrounds and differing connections to
      Israel and the Israel/Palestine conflict. Resetting the Table works with
      Jewish young adults to transform dominant norms of communication
on Israel
      from avoidance, intimidation, and antagonism toward exploration,
      empowerment, and collaborative deliberation. This fall’s program with
      Resetting the Table builds on the group’s visit to campus last
February for
      a similar workshop.


   - Two weeks ago a moderated campus conversation on Israel/Palestine, led
      by the Assistant Dean for Campus Life and Diversity and Director of
      Religious and Spiritual Life, featured Professor Yehezkel Landau and Imam
      Abdullah Antepli. Yehezkel Landau, a Jewish educator with dual
Israeli and
      U.S. citizenship, has worked for over three decades in Israel
and the U.S.
      in the fields of interfaith education and Jewish-Arab
peacemaking. Abdullah
      Antepli is chief representative of Muslim affairs and adjunct faculty of
      Islamic Studies at Duke University and the founder and executive board
      member of the Association of College Muslim Chaplains.  Following this
      dialogue, the focus of the speakers’ three-day stay on campus was
      interreligious discussion and activities for students,
administrators, and
      faculty. These included Jummah prayers and Shabbat services,
each followed
      by dialogue and a shared meal, which welcomed people of all
backgrounds and
      practices, including community members from neighboring mosques and
      synagogues.


   - Earlier this month social justice educator Sheltreese McCoy was on
      campus for a week-long residency organized by several offices
and academic
      departments and programs.  She is the president and founder of Change
      the Field, a Queer People of Color social development firm, and
coordinator
      of the award-winning Crossroads Initiative at the University of
      Wisconsin-Madison. She held sessions on community-building and
      collaboration for students, faculty, and administrators focusing
especially
      on support for LGBTQ students and students of color.


   - An October 1st workshop introduced 30 students, administrators, and
      faculty to Nonviolent Communication (NVC). As developed by Marshall
      Rosenberg, NVC guides people to listen to the underlying values or
      needs expressed by others, even when expressed in difficult or hostile
      ways. The approach then builds on the new connections and understanding
      that arise to explore solutions and strategies that address the needs of
      all involved. NVC is being used in conversations, conflicts and settings
      worldwide by communities and organizations, activists, leaders, parents,
      educators, doctors, social workers, and managers. Plans are
underway for a
      second NVC training in the spring, hosted by the Carolyn Grant '36
      Endowment Committee.


   - A campus conversation in September, “Bridging the Racial Divide in the
      College Classroom and Beyond,” provided an opportunity for members of
      campus to engage with a small group of scholars and alums on race,
      equality, access, and privilege. Panelists included Ivory Toldson, the
      deputy director of the White House initiative to increase the number of
      young black men in higher education: Marcia Chatelain, a Georgetown
      University scholar of African American History; Indiana Garcia ’11,  a
      trainer for the Posse Foundation in Los Angeles; Shaka King ’01, a
      filmmaker and recipient of this year’s W. K. Rose Fellowship;
and Zachariah
      Mampilly, Associate Professor of Political Science and Director of the
      Africana Studies program. Associate Professor of Film Mia Mask served as
      moderator.  Leslie Offutt, Associate Professor of History, and Miriam
      Mahdaviani-Goldstone, Visiting Assistant Professor of Dance, coordinated
      the dialogue.


   - Upcoming so far in the spring semester are Dialogue across Engagement
      and Difference-funded lectures by New York Times columnist Frank
      Bruni, February 15, who will speak on “Demanding More from College,”
      and by journalist, author, and host of On Being Krista Tippett, who
      will speak on “Creating Civility” April 12.



Please continue to use the Strengthening Vassar website for updates on
initiatives and events, 





Last spring Vassar students were given the opportunity to participate in a
survey focused on Title IX issues, specifically sexual assault and sexual
misconduct on campus. I am very grateful that so many of our students were
willing to share their experiences and perspectives.  This information is
invaluable as we redouble our work on campus to prevent and respond to all
forms of sexual misconduct or assault.  No level of sexual violence is
acceptable at Vassar, and we must do everything in our power to eradicate
it.  Your help with this survey was significant in providing us with a
baseline from which we can continuously improve.



It is clear from what students have shared that we have compelling work
ahead of us.  Many people at Vassar already have been committed to
educating the community about sexual violence and working to prevent it.
However, we continue to face serious issues. We will now focus on
identifying and implementing additional steps to insure more awareness and
agency for our students and others in our community.



We will present key survey findings at open campus meetings early next
month:  Monday, February 1, at 7-8:30 pm in Rocky 300, and Thursday,
February 4, in Rocky 300, at 5:30-7 pm. Additionally, shorter presentations
will be made to the Vassar Student Association (VSA) on Sunday, January 31,
and at the administrative forum and the faculty meeting on Wednesday,
February 3.



Please find posted here (
 a summary of
important findings from the survey, as well as related information.  The
full report of the findings will be posted in February, as soon as all of
the statistical analysis is completed. We will notify the community by
email when that posting is available.



In closing, I would like to thank the Survey Oversight Group, which worked
to develop the survey instrument with a number of other colleges in our
region, and to undertake the analysis of the Vassar findings.  That group
includes:



David Davis-Van Atta, Director of Institutional Research and Assessment;

Rachel Pereira, Director of Equal Opportunity & Affirmative Action/Title IX
Coordinator; Kelly Grab, Assistant Director of Equal Opportunity &
Affirmative Action/Title IX Investigator; Charlotte Strauss Swanson, Sexual
Assault and Violence Prevention (SAVP) Coordinator; and Hannah Matsunaga
‘16, VSA Vice President for Student Life (2014-15).



Former members and other contributors include Renee Pabst, Director of
Health Education; Julian Williams, former Director of Equal Opportunity &
Affirmative Action/Title IX Officer; and Claire Ashley ‘15,
Post-Baccalaureate Fellow for the Office of Institutional Research.



It will take all of our efforts to reach our goal.  I hope you will join us
at one of the campus presentations. And I thank you for your own dedication
to making this a campus safe from sexual violence.












 No doubt our new science building will gain nicknames to rival “Rocky,”
“The Deece,” and “UpC,” but officially we are excited to introduce it as
the Bridge for Laboratory Sciences. Its facilities will add so much to the
curriculum and research for several departments and programs, while the
building also serves as the new home of the Chemistry department.

 As well, the Bridge for Laboratory Sciences is a wonderful new gathering
place for all of us, and provides a great new accessible pathway for easy
passage between the central campus and points south such as Skinner Hall,
the South Parking Lot, and the Vassar Farm and Ecological Preserve. During
this cold time of the year enjoy the Bridge as a haven filled with natural
light, lots of tables and chairs, the new Bridge Café (open Monday-Friday,
8:30am-3:30pm), and a great new overhead view of the Fonteyn Kill and
Skinner Hall. Once the weather warms up we can also take our enjoyment
outdoors to the sizable patio that extends off of the building’s main
entry-level corridor.  And stay tuned: you will be invited to a campus open
house for the Bridge in late February or early March.

 The completion of the Bridge for Laboratory Sciences also marks the
culmination of Vassar’s larger effort -- nearly a decade in the planning --
to bring our science facilities more in line with our forward-thinking
curriculum. Over the past three years of construction (*Has it only been
that long?) this has also brought major renovations to New England
Building, Olmsted Hall, and Sanders Physics.

As a result these four buildings are now home to the departments of
Biology, Chemistry, Cognitive Science, Computer Science, Physics and
Astronomy, and Psychology, as well as the Biochemistry and the Neuroscience
and Behavior programs. Spaces in the Bridge are also resources for the
laboratory curricula in Earth Science and Environmental Studies. By
bringing all of these faculty, facilities, and students into closer
proximity Vassar will better support collaboration among them; in that
spirit we christen this exciting new campus hub the Integrated Science
Commons.

 There are so many people to thank for such a vast project, and we will do
so at events to come. Right now I must recognize dean Marianne Begemann and
professor Joseph Tanski for their exceptional leadership. To everyone I am
also grateful for your patience and professionalism throughout this
disruptive period for the physical campus; the last disruption will be
Mudd’s demolition in the spring. Fortunately all of this has been for a
great cause, because Vassar is now so well positioned in the sciences for
the 21st century and beyond. I look forward to celebrating this historic
outcome with you.

 





Recently, several anti-Semitic statements were posted to Yik Yak, as
reported to the campus Friday by Vassar’s Bias Incident Response Team
(BIRT).  The anonymous nature of Yik Yak makes it difficult to impossible
to hold any individual or individuals accountable for these abhorrent posts.
However, as a community, we denounce such egregious behavior, as BIRT has
done and as we are writing to do today.



We have worked very hard as a community, in particular over the last
several years, to live up to our commitment to treat all members of our
community with respect and to counter all forms of discriminatory behavior
on campus.   We call on all of you now, again, to condemn all forms of
racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, homophobia, gender discrimination, and
other behaviors that do not live up to our values.



We cannot and will not tolerate hateful speech or other forms of
discriminatory expression or behavior.  Please join us in standing up for
respect and dignity for every member of our community.









I am writing to let you know that Bob Walton, Vice President for Finance
and Administration, has announced that he will leave the college at the end
of the current academic year to become CEO of the National Association of
College Stores (NACS), a professional trade association representing the
collegiate retailing industry.  The Association is headquartered in
Oberlin, Ohio.



Bob has been a truly remarkable and invaluable member of the senior staff,
as well as of the broader campus community, since he joined the college in
2013, and we are going to miss him tremendously.  In the coming months we
will have ample opportunity to show our appreciation for his many
significant contributions.



We will keep the community informed as we develop plans for leadership in
the wide-ranging finance and administration areas.  For now, please join me
in congratulating Bob on this exciting professional opportunity.







I know that many of you are deeply involved in campus issues related to the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict and BDS, and others are following the issues
closely. These discussions are creating stress on campus, as members of our
community hold very different views on these complicated matters.  I am
writing to express how vital it is that, even as we disagree, we discuss
these issues as a community committed to engaging respectfully with diverse
viewpoints.



We are hearing from students on all sides of the issue that many are
extremely uncomfortable with the nature of the dialogue on campus. In
addition, some are experiencing attacks on social media from both inside
and outside the college community that are completely unacceptable.  We
denounce these attacks and ask that other members of our community do the
same.  We encourage all members of our community to report any instances of
discrimination, harassment, threats or intimidation over social media or on
campus to our Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action office so that the
college can take appropriate steps.



Our priorities on campus remain supporting all of our students and creating
opportunities for broad and respectful dialogue around these and other
important issues. This is key to our academic mission and to having a
community that supports each other and our diverse viewpoints.







I am writing today to you – faculty, students, staff, alumnae/i, and
parents – to let you know that I plan to conclude my presidency of Vassar
at the end of next academic year, June 30, 2017, with a sabbatical
following through the fall semester of 2017. The Board of Trustees will
make a more formal public announcement later today, but I wanted to take
this opportunity to let our community know in a more personal way of this
long-planned transition.

The board and I established this timing when I signed my current contract
in 2012. Announcing this now provides adequate time for the search process
to be put in place this spring and to proceed smoothly over the next
academic year.

We have made significant progress on a number of fronts at Vassar during
the past decade, with much more to do to solidify that progress. I am most
proud of how the diversity of our student body has grown.  We are a
community of many different backgrounds and perspectives. We have, for
example, doubled the number of low-income students at Vassar from a decade
ago.  Racial diversity has grown significantly, and between 70 and 100
first-generation students have been part of each of our recent first-year
classes. I am also pleased that we have been at the forefront of increasing
the number of military veterans in our classes through the Posse Veterans
Program.  And, of course, I’m very excited by the opportunities that the
Bridge for Laboratory Sciences and the Integrated Science Commons create
for our current and future students, faculty, and staff, as well as by the
other investments we’ve made in our beautiful campus.

I plan to spend the rest of my tenure helping Vassar continue to set the
pace of change in access to higher education for diverse communities of
highly qualified students, and helping to address some of our continuing
challenges on campus.  I value your collaboration and partnership as we go
forward.

As I consider my presidency at this wonderful college, I think in terms of
the individuals I have had the privilege to know – our amazing students,
talented and hard-working faculty and staff, alumnae and alumni
accomplished in every field, and dedicated board colleagues. Vassar is a
place that has never been afraid to take bold steps, and I believe that we
have taken important ones over the past decade. I look forward to the
ongoing work that will continue to ensure Vassar’s place as a leader in
higher education.



The following notice has been posted on the President's Bulletin Board:


It is with great sadness that I inform you of the death of Derrick Jones,
Janitor,

on July 5, 2014, at age 59.  He was the husband of Anna Belle
Gadsden-Jones, Coordinator of the Residential Operations Center.



Mr. Jones began his career in Buildings and Grounds, in 1988, as a Janitor.
 He remained in this position until his passing.



Please join me in expressing deep sympathy to Anna Belle’s and Derrick’s
family and friends.
